Who has access to my novel?
With server-side encryption, the only person who has access to your novel, besides you, is the server administrator. At Novelize, we’ve limited that to one person for added privacy. And it’s not even easy for the server admin at Novelize to access your novel, because it’s parceled out and saved in lots of different places on the server (one scene here, another scene over there). And we programmed it that way intentionally.

So if you asked us to read what you wrote, and tell you what we think about it, it would take us a long time to do it. Unless you are kind enough to send us your novel via email. And whenever the admin has to find information from a novel, he spends hours doing it. Needless to say, he’d never look at your novel for fun.

Why does the admin have access to your novel at all? Well, the nature of programming means that we have to access the database in order to display and export your novel. If we encrypted the information on your end (client-side encryption), then we wouldn’t be able to take your novel and turn it into a Word or PDF document for you. Additionally, if we switched to client-side encryption, you would not be able to recover your password if it was forgotten. Can you imagine how devastating it would be to forget your password and never have access to your novel again? So that’s why we decided not to go with client-side encryption and instead went with limited access on the back-end. But don’t worry. We’ll keep it safe.

And if you want to play devil’s advocate: Let’s assume some big-name author like Stephen King wrote his novel with Novelize. That would be awesome, right? But even if we had access to his novel, it would be worthless to us. While it would undoubtedly be a great book, it wouldn’t get any sales without his name on the cover. And when you steal a book, you don’t sell it under the actual author’s name, right? That’s why even Stephen King’s novel would be safe with us. And we’ll wait to read it until he publishes it, too.
